


port http://soen287.encs.concordia.ca:5025
You could go to this page to see the result


Adopt A Dog/Cat Website
Running Problem – Version 3
This version requires HTML, CSS, JS and Node.js server. No XML is required.
1) Create a template for your entire site such that you define the header and
footer once and include them in each page of the site. This should be done
using Node.js.
The following is just as a reminder of what the header and footer should
contain.
• Header: It should include the name of your adoption service and a
logo/picture. Clicking on the logo/picture should take you back to the
home page. It should also display the current date and time. The
Time should automatically refresh every second. (No change from
Versions 1 & 2)
• Footer: This should appear at the bottom of all your pages. Give it a
distinct background color and include links to a Privacy/Disclaimer
Statement which can either appear in the content area of the site or
in an alert or confirm box. It should display a message promising
users that their information will not be sold or misused, and protects
the website builder from any incorrect information posted by a pet
owner. No change from Version 1).
2) You will manage 3 text files which will reside on the server.
a. A login file which will contain username and passwords. This file will
be consulted when a user is logging in to register an animal for
adoption or will be written to when a new user registers. Each field
should be separated by colon (:) and each user info is in one line.
For example if I have a file with 3 accounts, the file will look like so:
user1:pass1
user2:pass2
user3:pass3
b. An available pet information file that will store the information
entered by a user when they registered their pet. Details of the
information to include in the file and the format are given in the
description of Have a pet to give away in section 3 below
3) Functionality of your site: Following is a review of each of the entries in
your menu with an explanation of the expected behavior some of which
already exists from versions 1 and 2 of this running problem and some
which are additions to this last version.
• Home: no changes from version 1
• Browse Available Pets: is being removed for version 3. We are
combining it with the Find a cat/dog menu entry.
• Find a cat/dog: The form for this option was already created in Version
1, and validated in version 2. When the user presses the Submit button,
all records of animals that match the criteria in this form are displayed
for the potential pet owner to peruse through.
• Dog care: no changes from version 1
• Cat care: no changes from version 1
• Create an account: This is a new menu entry in Version 3. When a
user clicks on this menu option, a login creation page loads into the
content area with text fields for a username and one for a password as
well as a description of the allowed formats for usernames and
passwords. A username can contain letters (both upper and lower
case) and digits only. A password must be at least 4 characters long
(characters are to be letters and digits only), have at least one letter
and at least one digit. Before sending this information to the server
make sure that the entered username and password satisfy the format
criteria just listed. As usernames are unique, you need to make sure
that there isn’t already such a user name in use. If the requested
username already exists, the server sends back a message requesting
a new username/password pair informing the user that this username is
not available. If the username is not already in use, then write this new
pair to the login file following the format specified in bullet 2 a and
return a message to the content area confirming that the account was
successfully created and that they are now ready to login whenever
they are ready.
• Have a pet to give away: Before a user can create an entry for a new
pet on the site they must first log in. Here is the behavior of this option:
o When a user clicks on this menu option, they will first be asked to
login. The client side needs to make sure that the format of both
the username and password entered satisfy the criteria listed
under the bullet Create an account above.
o When the user clicks the Submit button, the server will check by
reading the login file that this login pair exists. If it is a registered
login/password pair a new session is started and the form, which
was already created in version 1, is loaded into the content area.
If the pair does not exist, a message is send back to the browser
saying that the login failed. A user can try as many times as they
want to login.
o Once they have successfully logged in, they are ready to fill out
the form and submit it.
o Once a form is submitted, the information is added to the
available pet information file. The 1st entry in the file for each pet
must be an integer, which acts as a counter and a unique id for
that entry as well as the username of the pet owner, followed by
the information from the form. Each entry should be delimited by
a colon (:) and each pet record should be in one line. For
example if there are 3 pets available for adoption the file would
look as follows
1:user1: cat:persian:0.5:male: ………
2:user2:dog:5:female: ……
3:user2:dog:10.5:male:……
where ….. Represents the rest of the information
• LogOut: This option terminates a user’s session. The server should
return and display a confirmation message.
• Contact us: no change from version 1